There are two classes that can be used in accessing the database. These are
the QSqlTableModel and  QSqlQueryModel classes. The QSqlQueryModel class only
provides a read-only model to the database. QSqlTableModel provides both read
and write model access to the database.

In the early days of the PHP language, data, presentation, and business logic
were all jumbled up in one or more scripts. This made debugging and eventual
code maintenance a nightmare. This same dilemma does crop up from time to time
in language and framework design.

The Model-View-Controller (MVC) approach is an attempt to solve this problem.
It recognizes that one critical piece of software is data. By recognizing
this, it abstracts the data into what is called a model. A model is basically
a representation of the data in a software. This data can be a list of strings
or integers. It can be the folders and files under a parent folder. The data
can also be a list of rows that have been returned from a query against a
database.

This data that has been obtained needs to displayed or presented to the user.
The component(s) through which the data is piped is called the view.

In Qt, there are a number of widgets that can be used to display data in a
model. Some typical views for data presentation are as follows:

![qt-sql-model-view.png]

These view classes are optimized for the displaying of information such that,
when they are associated with a model, a change in the model will cause the
view to be automatically updated. The view maintains its own state and gets
informed when there are changes in the model.

For instance, when a list of names is displayed in a QListView, a call to
remove() on the model will both remove the item from the model's list and also
update the view by reducing the number of items on display.

Instead of writing code to update the view, the view class does so on our
behalf.

This instance receives as arguments a pointer to a parent object and a
connection to the database connection. This QSqlTableModel model allows for
editing of the rows in a table too.
